Lightning is a event driven programming paradigm and which gives developers to an ability to automate things on some user events. e.g., User click on a button, link, page loading and renderring

**Component-Level Events**
Component-level events are generated by a component and can be handled by the component itself, or its containing component or application. Component events are useful for situations where your component can be used in an application multiple times and you don’t want the different instances interfering with each other.

In this example we have created a searchComponent which will be an event of COMPONENT type
The aura:attribute defined in this example represents the data that can be carried with the event. It is also referred to as the *event’s shape*.

**Register the Event**
The contactSearch component registers that it can generate the event with the aura:registerEvent component.
The aura:registerEvent specifies the event type. Note the “c:” prefix. That is the default namespace and is used in orgs that do not have a namespace. *The name attribute is what the component’s container uses to specify which of its controller functions should be called when the event is fired.*

**Declare the Handler**
In the Contact application, the app’s handleContactSearchComplete controller method will be called when the event is fired.

**Fire the Event**
The contactSearch component creates the event in the controller, sets its parameters, and fires it after the search has completed. This code resides in a helper function that is called from a controller function.

**Handle the Event**
The app’s uses contactSearch component within and the handler method is then called, which allows it to update its list of Contacts.
The parameter that was set is retrieved with the getParam method. Note another extremely powerful aspect of the Lightning Component Framework at work here. There is no need to write code to manipulate the DOM to update the table. A single line of code to set the attribute value that the table uses will automatically update the table.